### Project Background
- In this project, Artemis Financial wanted to strengthen their cyber security by generating a checksum value to ensure safe file transfers. 
What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?
- Most of the vulnerabilities found in the dependency check were due to out of date dependencies. Since it may be impossible to update the dependencies while maintaining project requirements such as hardware compatibility, I only updated dependencies on an as needed basis. For example, I updated the parent pom because the embedded tomcat server had a bug.
- It's important to maintain application security for a host of reasons. Without robust security, attackers may be able to
  - Slow/halt application servers, wasting resources and therefore money
  - Retrieve private data, eroding distrust with users
  - Mangle server data, eroding distrust with users and destroying whatever value the users may have to the company. 
### Application Development and Security Practices
- First, I generated a SHA-256 key for the application the encrypt the data with, generating the checksum value. Sufficient enough for HTTP, but not for HTTPS. In order to ensure a truly safe transfer, I also generated a self-signed certificate and reconfigured the server to verify the certificate before granting access to the server. In the midst of this, I had to update the parent pom in order for the embedded tomcat server to behave correctly.
- I made sure my code was functional and secure by performing a vulnerability assessment before and after applying my changes. I read through the vulnerabilities described in the vulnerability report and verified that the code I wrote does not lead to any of them.  
- The SHA-256 key ensures the data is encrypted with a sufficiently complex key to protect against cyber threats. The certificate ensures the data has not changed since it was sent from the server. While this is technically secure, most web browsers will probably warn users before visiting this application's associated URI(s) because the certificate is self-signed. With a self-signed certificate, there is no way for the browser to know if the user should trust the server because anyone could have set up the server and just because we don't put malware in our program, doesn't mean everyone will. If Artemis would like to avoid this warning, they can look into getting a certificate signed by a certificate authority. With that said, doing this would not provide any additional functionality for the software itself.
- In the future, I would use the CVE and NVD databases to look for potential software vulnerabilities and mitigation techniques. Most likely though, I won't be interacting directly with the databases but instead using a tool that queries the databases for me. In this project, I used maven dependency-check for this purpose, but a different tool may be used depending on project details like programming language. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) was extremely helpful for researching secure encryption algorithms. In the future standards like this will likely be helpful resources as well.
